Share Link
Mobile View
Free features
Premium features
Case removal
Warning on translation
Get this document in PDF
Print it on a file/printer
[Cites
0
, Cited by
16592
]
[
Entire Act
]
User Queries
rape
intercourse sexual
intercourse
May presume
Take notes as you read a judgment using our
Virtual Legal Assistant
and get email alerts whenever a new judgment matches your query (
Query Alert Service
). Try out our
Premium Member Services
--
Sign up today
and get free trial for one month.
Union of India - Section
Section 114 in The Indian Evidence Act, 1872
114. Court may presume existence of certain facts.
The Court may presume the existence of any fact which it thinks likely to have happened, regard being had to the common course of natural events, human conduct and public and private business, in their relation to the facts of the particular case.
Illustrations
The Court may presume -
(a)
that a man, who is in possession of stolen goods soon after the theft is either the thief or has received the goods knowing them to be stolen, unless he can account for his possession ;
(b)
that an accomplice is unworthy of credit, unless he is corroborated in material particulars ;
(c)
that a bill of exchange, accepted or endorsed, was accepted or endorsed for good consideration ;
(d)
that a thing or state of things which has been shown to be in existence within a period shorter than that within which such things or states of things usually cease to exist, is still in existence ;
(e)
that the judicial and official acts have been regularly performed ;
(f)
that the common course of business has been followed in particular cases ;
(g)
that evidence which could be and is not produced would, if produced, be unfavorable to the person who withholds it ;
(h)
that if a man refuses to answer a question which he is not compelled to answer by law, the answer, if given, would be unfavourable to him ;
(i)
that when a document creating an obligation is in the hands of the obligor, the obligation has been discharged.
But the Court shall also have regard to such facts as the following, in considering whether such maxims do or do not apply to the particular case before it-
As to Illustration (a) - A shopkeeper has in his till a marked rupee soon after it was stolen, and cannot account for its possession specifically, but is continually receiving rupees in the course of his business :
As to Illustration (b) - A, a person of the highest character, is tried for causing a man's death by an act of negligence in arranging certain machinery. B, a person of equally good character, who also took part in the arrangement, describes precisely what was done, and admits and explains the common carelessness of A and himself.
As to Illustration (b) - A crime is committed by several persons. A, B and C, three of the criminals, are captured on the spot and kept apart from each other. Each gives an account of the crime implicating D, and the accounts corroborate each other in such a manner as to render previous concert highly improbable ;
As to Illustration (c) - A, the drawer of a bill of exchange, was a man of business. B, the acceptor, was a young and ignorant person, completely under A's influence :
As to Illustration (d) - It is proved that a river ran in a certain course five years ago, but it is known that there have been floods since that time which might change its course :
As to Illustration (e) - A judicial act, the regularity of which is in question, was performed under exceptional circumstances ;
As to Illustration (f) - The question is, whether a letter was received. It is shown to have been posted, but the usual course of the post was interrupted by disturbances :
As to Illustration (g) - A man refuses to produce a document which would bear on a contract of small importance on which he sued, but which might also injure the feelings and reputation of his family ;
As to Illustration (h) - A man refuses to answer a question which he is not compelled by law to answer, but the answer to it might cause loss to him in matters unconnected with the matter in relation to which it is asked :
As to Illustration (i) - A bond is in possession of the obligor, but the circumstances of the case are such that he may have stolen it.
114A. Presumption as to absence of consent in certain prosecution for rape.
In a prosecution for rape under clause (a), clause (b), clause (c), clause (d), clause (e), clause (f), clause (g), clause (h), clause (i), clause (j), clause (k), clause (l), clause (m) or clause (n) of sub-section (2) of section 376 of the Indian Penal
Code, where sexual intercourse by the accused is proved and the question is whether it was without the consent of the woman alleged to have been raped and such woman states in her evidence before the court that she did not consent, the court shall presume that she did not consent.
Explanation. - In this section, "sexual intercourse" shall mean any of the acts mentioned in clauses (a) to (d) of section 375 of the Indian Penal Code.]
[Substituted by Criminal Law (Amendment) Act, 2013]
Prior to substitution by Criminal Law (Amendment) Act, 2013 section 114A read as;[114-A. Presumption as to absence of consent in certain prosecutions for rape.
[Inserted by Act 43 of 1983, Section 6.]
- In a prosecution for rape under clause (a) or clause (b) or clause (c) or clause (d) or clause (e) or clause (g) of sub-section (2) of section 376, of the Indian Penal Code, where sexual intercourse by the accused is proved and the question is whether it was without the consent of the woman alleged to have been raped and she states in her evidence before the Court that she did not consent, the Court shall presume that she did not consent.]