C.S.No.75 of 2021

                              IN THE HIGH COURT OF JUDICATURE AT MADRAS

                                             Reserved on : 18.03.2024

                                           Pronounced on : 01.04.2024

                                                     CORAM:

                                  THE HON'BLE MR. JUSTICE ABDUL QUDDHOSE

                                                C.S.No.75 of 2021

                     M/s.MRF Limited,
                     Having Regd. Office at
                     No.114, Greams Road,
                     Chennai 600 006, Rep. by its
                     Senior Manager - Sales Planning,
                     Mr.George Samuel                                      ... Plaintiff

                                                         vs.

                     1.POWERMAX Rubber Factory,
                     No.38/10, Thandavarayan Street,
                     Royapettah, Chennai - 600 014.

                     2.POWERMAX Tyre,
                     No.38/10, Thandavarayan Street,
                     Royapettah, Chennai - 600 014.                        ... Defendants

                     PRAYER: Plaint under Order IV Rule 1 Original Side Rules, Sections
                     28, 29, 134 and 135 of the Trade Marks Act, 1999 and Sections 51, 55
                     and 62 of the Copyright Act, 1957 and Section 7 of the Commercial
                     Courts, Commercial Division and Commercial Appellate Division of High
                     Courts Act, No.4 of 2016 for the following reliefs:



https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis
                                                                                           1/74
                                                                                   C.S.No.75 of 2021

                     a. A perpetual injunction restraining the Defendants, its distributors,
                     stockists, servants, agents, retailers, representatives or any other person
                     claiming under/through them, from in any manner infringing the
                     Plaintiff's Registered Trade Marks 'Muscleman Device', MRF CHEETAH,
                     MRF SAHARA, MRF SAFARI, PAHALWAN by the Defendant's by
                     using the Impugned Muscleman logo and the trademarks CHEETAH,
                     SAHARA, SAFARI or any other mark identical with and/ or deceptively
                     similar to the plaintiff's Trademarks/Artistic Works and Muscleman
                     Device, PAHALWAN, MRF CHEETAH, SAHARA, SAFARI in
                     connection with the defendant's goods/services and/or business or in any
                     other manner whatsoever;


                     b. A perpetual injunction restraining the Defendants, their distributors,
                     stockist's, servants, agents, retailers, representatives or any other person
                     claiming under/through them from in any manner using the trademarks
                     'SAHARA', 'CHEETAH', 'SAFARI' and Impugned Muscleman Device,
                     and/or any other mark which is identical with or deceptively similar to the
                     Plaintiff's registered Trademarks/Artistic Works Muscleman Device,
                     PAHALWAN, MRF CHEETAH, MRF SAHARA, SAFARI so as to pass
                     off the Defendant's goods or services or business or website as that of the
                     Plaintiff and/or wrongfully associate themselves with the Plaintiff's
                     business or in any other manner whatsoever,


                     c. A perpetual injunction restraining the Defendants, his distributors,
                     stockists, servants, agents, retailers, representatives or any other person
                     claiming under/through him from in any manner infringing the Plaintiff's

https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis
                                                                                              2/74
                                                                                          C.S.No.75 of 2021

                     Copyright in the 'MUSCLEMAN DEVICE' filed as Plaint Document No.1
                     by using the infringing mark/logo as shown in Plaint Document No. 6 or
                     any other mark/ device/ artistic work with is identical with/ deceptively
                     similar or any substantial reproduction of the MUSCLEMAN DEVICE'
                     on or in connection with the business of the Defendants, or in any other
                     manner whatsoever.


                     d. The Defendants be ordered to remove all painted displays, and other
                     display material being used by the Defendants containing Plaintiff's
                     Trademarks/Artistic Works, 'MUSCLEMAN Device or any other mark
                     which is deceptively similar and/or is a substantial reproduction thereof
                     and surrender to Plaintiff the glow sign board, all goods, labels,
                     catalogues, dyes, blocks, moulds, screen prints, packing materials, bills,
                     vouchers, literature, publicity material, letterheads, invoices, challans,
                     visiting cards, job cards, delivery notes, rate list, sign boards, glow signs,
                     blow ups and all reprographic materials and other materials bearing any
                     of the plaintiff's trade marks or artistic works of the Plaintiff.


                     e. A preliminary decree be passed in favour of the Plaintiff directing the
                     Defendants to render account of profits made by use of trademarks
                     'SAHARA', 'CHEETAH', 'SAFARI', PAHALWAN and/or Impugned
                     MUSCLEMAN DEVICE', and a final decree be passed in favour of the
                     Plaintiff for the amount of profits thus found to have been made by the
                     Defendants after the latter have rendered accounts;




https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis
                                                                                                     3/74
                                                                                   C.S.No.75 of 2021

                     f. The Defendants be ordered and decreed to pay to the Plaintiffs a sum
                     of Rs. 25,01,000/- as special damages for acts of Passing Off and
                     infringement of Trade Mark & infringement of copyright committed by
                     the Defendants
                     g. For costs of the suit.



                                       For Plaintiff          : Mr.Madhan Babu

                                       For Defendants         : Mr.G.N.Shukumar

                                                        JUDGMENT